---
title: MEP-002
---

MEP | 002
--- | ---
Title | Use CurveZMQ for encryption and authentication
Status | Draft
Created | 2014-11-18
Author | Otto Allmendinger

# Abstract

> If you have to type the letters “A-E-S” into your source code, you’re doing it
> wrong.

-- [Thomas Ptacek, 2009](https://web.archive.org/web/20090721160748/http://www.matasano.com/log/1749/typing-the-letters-a-e-s-into-your-code-youre-doing-it-wrong)

> All the crypto code you’ve ever written is probably broken

-- [Tony Ariceri, 2012] (http://tonyarcieri.com/all-the-crypto-code-youve-ever-written-is-probably-broken)


This document describes replacing the custom, unaudited transport layer
encryption used in Open-Transactions Client and Notary with a off-the-shelf
implementation that is tailored to our use case.

Doing so will reduce the amount of code which needs to be maintained, documented
and audited. The new code can be expected to have better security
characteristics than our custom implementation.

# Current status

Encryption and decryption are currently implemented using the classes
`OTEnvelope` and `OTCrypto`. Outside the implementation, there is no
documentation of the crypto scheme being used.

The class `OTEnvelope` is used for secure local persistence, secure
Client-To-Client communication and secure Client-To-Notary communication. This
MEP only concerns the use of `OTEnvelope` for the last application.

There are some efforts to replace the old, unaudited code with new, unaudited
code ([opentxs issue #50]
(https://github.com/Open-Transactions/opentxs/pull/50/files)).

# Drawbacks

The current custom implementation is not well-document nor audited. Cursory
review reveals that the Notary [does not use authenticated
encryption][UnauthenticatedOpen] and is likely vulnerable to a chosen-ciphertext
attack.

Flaws in the encryption and authentication systems **will** be exploited to
compromise personal data and steal funds from users of Open-Transactions,
severely damaging the reputation of the product and the company.

# Enhancement

The right tools must be chosen for the task. The recommended solution for
providing authentication and confidentiality on top of ZeroMQ is
[_CurveZMQ_](http://curvezmq.org/):

> This document describes CurveZMQ, a protocol for secure messaging across the
> Internet. CurveZMQ is closely based on Daniel J. Bernstein's CurveCP, adapted
> for use in ZeroMQ over TCP. A reference implementation of CurveZMQ is provided
> at curvezmq.org. This document describes version 1.0 of CurveZMQ.

The system also provides important features that are currently not available,
like _Perfect Forward Security_ and built-in protection against replay attacks.


# Impact

## Comparison to TLS

There are many other transport level security mechanism to choose from. CurveZMQ
is the one that has built-in support by ZeroMQ.

Another candidate worth looking at is TLS, which is widely used and
well-audited. The lead developer of ZeroMQ, Peter Hintjens, has this to say
about TLS/SSL:

> One of the biggest user requests for ØMQ is a good security layer. Mainstream
> options like TLS/SSL are complex, slow and designed for web browsing, not
> high-speed messaging.

-- [Securing ZeroMQ: CurveCP and NaCl](http://hintjens.com/blog:34)

In face of this statement, using CurveZMQ instead of TLS is a justified
decision.

(The "complexity" Hintjens refers to can be seen in the _Certificate Authority_
system used by OpenSSL and vulnerabilities like _Heartbleed_. The
dissatisfaction with the _OpenSSL_ implementation has led to efforts like
_LibreSSL_.)

## New Dependencies

The class `OTEnvelope` depends on cryptographic primitives that are currently
provided by the _OpenSSL_ library. CurveZMQ however [depends on
_libsodium_](https://github.com/zeromq/libcurve#dependencies).

The _libsodium_ library is well-supported on many different platforms:

> Sodium supports a variety of compilers and operating systems, including
> Windows (with MingW or Visual Studio, x86 and x64), iOS and Android.

-- https://github.com/jedisct1/libsodium

The API methods for using CurveZMQ are available for the Go language bindings:

> This requires ZeroMQ version 4.0.1 or above. To use CURVE security, ZeroMQ
> must be installed with libsodium enabled.

-- https://github.com/pebbe/zmq4

## Necessary Code Changes

The introduction of CurveZMQ happens in three steps:

1. Clean up the transport code on the client, including a separation of the
   transport security layer from the rest of the code. Code for local secure
   storage will be separated from the transport code.
1. Add support for the key formats used in CurveZMQ (ed25519).
1. Replace the existing transport crypto system (OTEnvelope) by CurveZMQ.

### Side Benefits

1. The cleanup of the transport code is a large benefit in itself.

1. There are efforts to use `ed25519` as the digital signature scheme for
   documents as a replacement for the current RSA signatures. The key format
   used in that scheme is the same as the one used for CurveZMQ. The _libsodium_
   library, which CurveZMQ depends on, provides support for `ed25519`
   signatures. This allows Open-Transactions to only depend on _libsodium_ for
   all signature verification and transport encryption.

<!--- links -->

[UnauthenticatedOpen]: https://github.com/Open-Transactions/opentxs/blob/c688d63f57cc7393bf60c7c80fa040b1eb110c6b/src/core/crypto/OTEnvelope.cpp#L577
