---
title: "MEP 1"
---

MEP | 001
--- | ---
Title | MEP purpose and guidelines
Status | Draft
Created | 13-11-2014
Author | Harm Aarts, Nicola Larosa

# Abstract

This Monetas Enhancement Proposal (MEP) briefly describes the format future
MEPs should be submitted in. The goal of having MEPs is to centralize past
decisions and have a structured way of presenting them.

# Current status

Currently there is no common place to record conclusions on significant changes
to the software, nor is there a uniform, structured way of doing so.

# Drawbacks

Having no structured way or place to view significant changes has several
drawbacks:

1. There is no efficient way of referring to past conclusions, leading to
   frustration and confusion.
2. There is no way to know what is currently discussed and what the status
   might be.
3. Not all the context is always present or evident: this could lead to
   misinterpretation.

# Enhancement

This proposal proposes a way of recording made decisions in a central, self
contained and uniform way. Some inspiration was had from
[BIP-0001](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0001.mediawiki) (in
turn largely lifted from [PEP 1](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0001/)).

## Sections

A MEP must contain several sections:

- **Header** section

  A simple table containing metadata about the document. The keys in the table
  are:

  1. MEP: contains a unique identifier for the MEP. It must be an integer and
     must be left padded with zeros to three digits total.
  2. Title: a descriptive title concisely summarizing the MEP.
  3. Status: tells in which state the document is currently in. Possible values
     are:

     1. 'Draft': the document is being discussed.
     2. 'Accepted': the proposal set forth in the MEP is accepted and should be
     acted upon.
     3. 'Rejected': the proposal is rejected after due discussion.

  4. Created: the date on which the MEP was first presented.
  5. Author: the original proposers of the MEP.

- **Abstract** section

  This contains what every abstract contains: a short summary of the document,
  in this case the MEP.

- **Current status** section

  This describes the current situation. The description should be as clear and
  self contained as possible.

  Being self contained implies linking to other sources as reference only. Code
  snippets or protocol descriptions should be copied to a reasonable extent.
  The goal is to make the MEP understandable when read in a submarine.

- **Drawbacks** section

  The current status has drawbacks. While the 'Current status' section contains
  nothing more than a description, this section points out what is wrong with
  the status quo.

- **Enhancement** section

  While the previous sections set the stage, this one contains the actual
  proposed solution. This, too, should be clear, self contained and as brief as
  possible.

- **Impact** section

  However nice a proposed enhancement is, the cost of effecting the enhancement
  should explicitly be considered. This cost can be internal: code needs
  refactoring or documentation needs to be revised. The cost can also be
  external: backward compatibility could be broken or specifics should be
  communicated with the community.

## Workflow

Once the subject matter has been adequately discussed and the need for a MEP is
clear, the author will create a pull request adding a new MEP to the
repository. The filename will contain the MEP number, preferably using the next
available one. The initial status will be "Draft".

After review, discussion and agreement, the status will be set to "Accepted"
and the pull request will be merged. The new MEP will be announced on the
Technical mailing list and the MEP will be effective from then on.

If no agreement can be reached the status will be set to "Rejected", and the
pull request will still be merged for future reference. The MEP number will not
be reused.

Changes to accepted MEPs will undergo the same evaluation process.

# Impact

This MEP introduces a control process for significant changes to design and
implementation.
