MEP | 8
--- | ---
Title | Support the Ed25519 signature scheme
Status | Draft
Created | 2015-01-22
Author | Marko Bencun

# Support the Ed25519 signature scheme

## Abstract

This MEP is about supporting the `Ed25519` signature scheme for signing contracts in Open-Transactions, using the `libsodium` library.
`Ed25519` should replace the use of `RSA` in Open-Transactions.

This MEP does not concern itself with enabling support for multiple signature schemes. This will be part of another MEP in due time.

## Current status

[Credentials](../doctypes/credentials.md) in OT each have three keys: `A` (authentication), `E` (encryption) and `S` (signing).
There is currently no way of specifying which type of signature scheme is used by the `A`/`E`/`S` keys.

Open-Transactions currently only supports `RSA` signatures with PSS padding, using the openssl library (openssl/rsa.h).

With [MEP2](mep-002.md), OT is using `Ed25519` with `libsodium` for the transport layer authentication/encryption. The opentxs project already
integrated the `libsodium` dependency.

## Drawbacks

`RSA` has a number of disadvantages as compared to `Ed25519`:
  * RSA key generation on mobile platforms is very slow.
  * Signing documents and verifying signatures is also very slow.
  * Key sizes are much longer for the same level of security.
  * RSA is less secure.

See also:

* [http://ed25519.cr.yp.to/](http://ed25519.cr.yp.to/)
* [http://kukuruku.co/hub/infosec/backdoor-in-a-public-rsa-key](http://kukuruku.co/hub/infosec/backdoor-in-a-public-rsa-key)

## Enhancement

Use `Ed25519` keys instead of `RSA` keys for user credentials.

## Impact

In the future, some users of Open Transactions might rely on RSA support. Supporting multiple signature schemes
by encoding a name and properties (key sizes, etc.) will be part of a future MEP, should the need arise.
