MEP | 003
--- | ---
Title | Document type XML cleanup
Status | Draft
Created | 14-11-2014
Author | Harm Aarts

# Abstract

This MEP contains a series of enhancements to the XML generated from the many
document types.

Most changes are cosmetic in nature, some are semantic improvements and a
single one is aimed at facilitating generation of valid XML.

These enhancements all have the goal of making the consumption, by human and
machines alike, easier.

# Current status

Open-Transactions currently serializes documents to XML prior to transport
and/or storage. This XML (should) constitute a Ricardian contract.

# Drawbacks

The current generated XML lacks consistency:

* In element and attribute naming, upper and lower case are not consistently
  applied.
* Some concepts bear different names.
* Others have superfluous prefixes.
* Yet others have cryptic or unnecessarily vague names.
* The generated XML has, sometimes, multiple XML declarations.

# Enhancement

The enhancements are all small:

* In general, XML elements use `PascalCase`. Attributes, on the other hand,
  use `camelCase`.
* All the `OT` prefixes are to be removed: they add no additional information
  to the whole.
* XML declarations are written only once at the top. This means that embedded
  XML has to avoid writing it.
* The current practice of prefixing the `@` symbol when serializing a response
  has to be changed to suffixing `Response`.
* Several names are changed:
  * `server` becomes `notary` (as do all derivatives like `serverID`)
  * `user` becomes `nym`
  * `assetType` and `assetTypeID` becomes `assetID`
  * `GetRequest` becomes `GetRequestNumber`
  * `GetTransactionNum` becomes `GetTransactionNumbers`
  * `CreateUserAccount` becomes `RegisterNym`
  * `Message` becomes `NotaryMessage`

# Impact

The impact of renaming attributes and elements is minimal: this is hardly more
difficult than a search and replace operation. We can rely on the current test
suite for relevant regressions.

Care should be taken communicating these changes to the community, as some
concepts previously known under different names now have a uniform name.

The departure of the `@` prefixes should also be explained. The `@` prefixes
are a construct from [Truledger](http://truledger.com/) and understandably made
it into OT. However, moving forward, this is now changed in favour of valid
XML.
