MEP | 002
--- | ---
Title | Use CurveZMQ for encryption and authentication
Status | Draft
Created | 17-11-2014
Author | Otto Allmendinger

# Abstract

> If you have to type the letters “A-E-S” into your source code, you’re doing it
> wrong.

-- [Thomas Ptacek, 2009](https://web.archive.org/web/20090721160748/http://www.matasano.com/log/1749/typing-the-letters-a-e-s-into-your-code-youre-doing-it-wrong)

> All the crypto code you’ve ever written is probably broken

-- [Tony Ariceri, 2012] (http://tonyarcieri.com/all-the-crypto-code-youve-ever-written-is-probably-broken)


This document describes replacing the custom, unaudited transport layer
encryption used in Open-Transactions Client and Notary with a off-the-shelf
implementation that is tailored to our use case.

Doing so will reduce the amount of code which needs to be maintained, documented
and audited. The new code can be expected to have better security
characteristics than our custom implementation.

# Current status

Encryption and decryption are currently implemented using the classes
`OTEnvelope` and `OTCrypto`. Outside the implementation, there is no
documentation of the crypto scheme being used.

The class `OTEnvelope` is used for secure local persistence, secure
Client-To-Client communication and secure Client-To-Notary communication. This
MEP only concerns the use of `OTEnvelope` for the last application.

There are some efforts to replace the old, unaudited code with new, unaudited
code ([opentxs issue #50]
(https://github.com/Open-Transactions/opentxs/pull/50/files)).

# Drawbacks

The current custom implementation is not well-document nor audited. Cursory
review reveals that the Notary [does not use authenticated
encryption][UnauthenticatedOpen] and is likely vulnerable to a chosen-ciphertext
attack.

Flaws in the encryption and authentication systems **will** be exploited to
compromise personal data and steal funds from users of Open-Transactions,
severely damaging the reputation of the product and the company.

# Enhancement

The right tools must be chosen for the task. The recommended solution for
providing authentication and confidentiality on top of ZeroMQ is
[_CurveZMQ_](http://curvezmq.org/):

> This document describes CurveZMQ, a protocol for secure messaging across the
> Internet. CurveZMQ is closely based on Daniel J. Bernstein's CurveCP, adapted
> for use in ZeroMQ over TCP. A reference implementation of CurveZMQ is provided
> at curvezmq.org. This document describes version 1.0 of CurveZMQ.

The system also provides important features that are currently not available,
like _Perfect Forward Security_ and built-in protection against replay attacks.

# Impact

The introduction of CurveZMQ happens in three steps:

1. Clean up the transport code on the client, including a separation of the
   transport security layer from the rest of the code. Code for local secure
   storage will be separated from the transport code.
1. Add support for the key formats used in CurveZMQ.
1. Replace the existing transport crypto system (OTEnvelope) by CurveZMQ.


The first step has great value in itself and should be done in any case.

The second step will also pay off when we decide to switch to the `ed25519`
signature system for document signatures.


<!--- links -->

[UnauthenticatedOpen]: https://github.com/Open-Transactions/opentxs/blob/c688d63f57cc7393bf60c7c80fa040b1eb110c6b/src/core/crypto/OTEnvelope.cpp#L577
