MEP | 003
--- | ---
Title | Document type XML cleanup
Status | Draft
Created | 14-11-2014
Author | Harm Aarts

# Abstract

This MEP contains a series of enhancements to the XML generated from the many
document types.

Most changes are cosmetic in nature, some are sematic improvements and a single
one is aimed to facilitate the generation of valid XML.

These enhancements all have as goal to make the consumption, by human and
machines alike, easier.

# Current status

Opentransactions currently serializes documents to XML prior to transport
and/or storage. This XML (should) constitute a Ricardian contract.

# Drawbacks

The current generated XML lacks consistency:

* In element and attribute naming upper and lower case are not consistedly
  applied.
* Some concepts bear different names.
* Others have superfluous prefixes.
* Yet others have cryptic or unnecessarily vague names.
* The generated XML has, sometimes, multiple XML declarations.

# Enhancement

The enhancements are all small:

1. In general XML elements use `PascalCase`. Attributes, on the other hand, use
   `camelCase`.
1. All the `OT` prefixes are to be removed. They add no additional information
   to the whole.
1. XML declarions are written only once on the top. This means that embedded
   XML is to forgo writing it.
1. The current practise of prefixing the `@` symbol when serializing a response
   is to be changed to suffixing `Response`.
1. Several names are renamed:
  1. `server` becomes `notary` (as do all derivatives like `serverID`)
  1. `user` becomes `nym`
  1. `assetType` and `assetTypeID` becomes `assetID`
  1. `GetRequest` becomes `GetRequestNumber`
  1. `GetTransactionNum` becomes `GetTransactionNumbers`
  1. `CreateUserAccount` becomes `RegisterNym`

